# XML - Extensible Markup Language

In Android development, using Extensible Markup Language (XML) is one way you can develop your app's user interface (UI). Read on to find out more about XML, its functions and structure.

## What is XML?

XML (Extensible Markup Language) is used in the presentation of different kinds of data. This is a flexible and descriptive way to create well-structured data and electronically distribute it across the public internet, as well as via corporate networks.

Its main function is to create data formats that are used to encode information for documentation, records, transactions and several other data formats. Data presented using XML may be used for creating different data types that are generated by building dissimilar types of content, including web and mobile content.

## XML for transaction data

Thousands of XML formats exist, in many different industries, to describe day-to-day data transactions, such as:

- Stocks and Shares
- Financial transactions
- Medical data
- Mathematical data
- Scientific measurements
- News information
- Weather services

## Structure of an XML document

The whole structure of XML and XML-based languages is built on tags.

## Correct design rules

For an XML document to be valid, the following conditions must be fulfilled:

- The document must be well formed.
- The document must comply with all the rules of the XML syntax.

For example, the XML structure below is missing </message> tag. For every opening tag, there must be a corresponding closing tag. The structure below violates that rule.

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<result>
    <message>
        Thank you for registering!
</result>

Now examine a corrected version of the same document:

1234567

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<result>
    <message>
      Thank you for registering!
    </message>
</result>
